So we implemented our first requirement.
Now let's turn this into a form.
We will continue to check the elements we are looking for.
Consider these tests as form up.
Real value of TDD will show itself when we go into the interactions part before adding our next test.
First, let's wrap this test with describe.
Look, we already have one here.
We have this describe basically this describe is for grouping the test and this is grouping all the
sign up component related tests.
And here in this describe, we will be having the layout tests.
So just moving this test into this describe look.
And if I save at this point, then if I open the karma window here we have this first described block
sign up component, this one.
And we have layout.
And under layout we have this.
It has.
Sign up, Heather.
Now let's add our next test.
This is similar to the one for the Heather, but in this one it has username input.
So this is going to be a form and in this form we will have an input for collecting user's username.
So just like having the sign up element, we get the HTML element, then we are going to use query selector
to get the input element.
And let's say this is the input.
And basically we are looking for this input to be.
30.
It has value.
So if the query finds that one, that means it won't be undefined.
Therefore this is going to be having a true value.
So let's save this one.
Now we see the test is failing.
Sign up component layout.
It has username, input is failing because this is returning.
Now we don't have that input and the fix is simple.
All we need to do is just add input right after this.
Heather Now the test is passing and if we switch to the browser, we see there is input right here.
Now let's add our next test.
Again, switching back to the karma and this one, we are going to look for another input and this is
going to be for email.
I'm just copying this test for the username because this one is almost identical.
All we need is just this is going to be an email input.
And we are going to again query the input element and we will check the existence of that input.
But if we save at this point, the test is going to pass because it is just querying the existence of
input, but we already have one.
So this is not a good way to write our test.
So we cannot rely onto this query to assert that both inputs are there.
So like if I save it, let's see the outcome here.
We can see it as email input is also passing, but it shouldn't be.
So we know that there will be multiple inputs.
And one of the ways, uh, to enhance this query is maybe we can go like this instead of creating single
element, we can query multiple by using query selector all.
So this would be returning all the inputs, all the input elements.
And let's say this is inputs, this is array now and we can check this inputs length this array length
to be to.
So let's save this.
So now this test is failing because the screen returns just one input.
This area only has one item and we don't have the second input.
So again, we can fix it by adding another input.
And this is passing, but these are not very trustworthy tests.
The queries are not specific to the fields.
We don't have anything about username or email.
Also, we will add another input for password.
And in that case, our email input test is going to fail because there won't be just two inputs.
There will be more.
Also, in browser we see to inputs.
But how would a real user knows what are these inputs for?
For a better solution, we can use placeholders in these inputs.
So like we can just set placeholder for each of them.
And for this one this is username.
And the other one is.
Let's go with, like, a male that saved us.
Now it is looking better, and we can also enhance our test to consider these placeholders.
Like we can update it as like we are looking for input, but we are specifically looking for this place
holder attribute to have.
Username value in it.
And similarly in this one.
Let's turn it back to query selector and we are looking for input having this place holder attribute
having this e dash mail value.
And again, this is going to be input and we expect this input to be pretty.
Saving it and going back to the karma output.
The tests are passing and now the UI is better in terms of clarifying what these inputs are.
But placeholder is not always the best way to inform the user about what is this input for.
Because as soon as the user types, something here that plays older is gone.
And if user enters incorrect value, like if I just type an email address into this one, I wouldn't
be able to catch that since I already lost the information about what this input was for.
So that's why there is a label element and we can use that to show the user what is this input for.
So right here we can have this label.
And this is going to be username.
And this label is for, let's say, username, and we are going to have that ID for this input.
So this is associated with this input.
This is for the username, an element which has this ID and we will have a label here and let's say
this is for.
Email and the label text is email and let's use ID for this input and that ID will be let's go with
email, not e mail for that.
So just like this.
Let's see this one.
Now we have labeled and email and if we just click to the username label, it focuses to the input associated
with it.
But at this point, if we go back to the test output, we have failures and let's see the list of them.
So the username, input and email inputs tests are failing because we no longer have placeholder and
the queries are returning null in the end.
So for this solution, we have more things to test and we can enhance our test like this.
So first thing is we query the label, so let's get the label first.
So we are going to get the label.
Query selector.
And this is.
The and this is the label and again, let's use attribute of it and this label is going to be for username.
So like we are just adding this to the query.
And then we are querying the input with the username.
So these are the associated elements.
Then we can make sure this input is there and also the label is there.
And also we can query the text content of it.
So like we can expect label to have the text content and it's going to contain.
User name.
So in this test, we are checking three things.
Checking the label, checking the input, and making sure that label content text content is this one.
The best practice for testing is to have single assertion in a test, but these are highly coupled assertions.
As a matter of fact, we are just checking the existence of an input that indicates this is for username.
These three assertion is actually doing one thing, which is we have an input with the label text we
are looking for.
So this is the test and let's copy the same thing for the email.
So we have email.
For email ID and the text with the e mail.
So let's save this one.
And here we see the tests are passing.
So now the tests are more reliable and also we are providing better user experience on the UI part.
Now we are going to add the next input element.
Like in any register form, we will have password.
So just copying this test, the one for the email input and this one we will have password input.
And similarly, we are going to check the password label.
Associated with this password input and the actual content of that label to have passwords with uppercase
P that saved us.
So this one is failing.
It has password, input is failing.
The fix is simple.
We will just add another label and input pair and this is for the password.
And the label text is password.
Saving it.
The tests are passing and if we check the browser here we have third field and we have corresponding
input here.
But if I don't pay attention to the style of this page yet, we will fix it.
We can just make sure all the elements are associated with it by just clicking the the label and it
is focusing to the input.
And here we can see it's working for each of these labels.
So now we have the password input, but if we type anything here, it's shown in clear text so it is
visible and for the password field we shouldn't be doing that.
So this input must be masked.
Let's add a test for it.
So just creating new one, it has password type for password input.
So we are.
Going to just copying the sign up and input.
I'm just going to remove the label from this one.
So we get the input element and basically we are going to check the attribute of it.
And that attribute is we are expecting this input type attribute to be.
Password.
By the way, this is showing error because this query result is not specifically returning the HTML
input element.
The type is associated with the input element.
So we can do the casting here.
We can say that the square result going to be HTML input element.
So input has the type attribute now.
So let's save this one.
And switching back to the test output here.
It is failing because actual value is text and it's not password.
So this input, we don't have type set for this one and by default it is text and we can set type here
to change it to.
Password.
So saving it.
The test is passing and if I switch to a browser and type anything here, now it is masked.
Now, since we are masking the password to make sure user enters the password they want, let's add
another input for confirming the password.
So we will have second password related input and we will do the similar controls like it's to have
the password type as well.
So it must be masked.
So just copying last two tests which are related for the password input existence and the type of it.
Now this one is for let's say it has password, repeat input.
And in this one, we are going to look for label of.
Like password, repeat and visible text is going to be like this password space.
Repeat P and R in uppercase.
Then for the type test.
It has password, type for password, repeat input.
And we are going to query the password.
Repeat input and we will check its type attribute.
Normally, we shouldn't be adding multiple failing tests, but again, we are doing repeating things
here and we know how we are going to fix those.
So it is okay for this kind of scenario to add multiple failing tests at a time.
So saving this one and switching to the test console and here we have two failures and in the spec list
we see the password type for password.
Repeat input and password.
Repeat input are failing.
Let's fix it.
The fix is again.
We do buy, copy and paste.
So we have this password.
Repeat.
For this one and password repeat.
The type will be password.
Let's save it.
The test is passing and if we check the browser, we have the password repeat as well.
Now let's add our final form element.
We will have a button to submit the request.
So let's create a new test.
But this is almost identical with the the first test.
We were checking the header, but we are going to check button this time.
So just copying that test and pasting pasting here it has sign up button.
Now we are going to look for button.
And let's change this one to button.
So this is button and we are looking for a button text content to be sign up saving it.
And the test is failing because we don't have this button.
And the fix is simple.
We will have a button here and it will have this text.
Now the test is passing.
And on browser we can see the button is here.
Now let's add one final test for this part.
Let's make sure the button is disabled initially.
Later, we will activate the button when we enter values for these inputs.
So adding a new test.
And in this one, it disables the button initially.
So we will be again getting the button.
And we expect this button.
And this is going to be having the disabled attribute and this can be now.
So we are adding this optional chain and we check this to be through the.
So we expect this disabled attribute to be set for this one, saving it.
And in this console, we can see it is failing.
And let's fix it.
Basically, we will add the.
Disabled attribute here.
Saving it now the tests are passing and if we switch to the browser we can see it is in disabled mode.
So we have all the elements we need for the sign up request.
Currently don't pay attention to the style part we will update those parts to.
By the way, before finishing this part, let's do a minor change in our test setup.
As you can see here, the tests are running in random order.
When a test fails, this output makes it harder to find that test.
So I'm going to change the test run order and we can do this configuration right here in the karma configs.
Here in this section there is this jasmine and it also has the command about it.
Like we can set jasmine configuration here and one of them is added right here.
At the moment this random is true.
So the test order, like the tests are running in random order and we can just change it to right here
and we can say random to false.
So let's save this one.
And unlike the other changes we do in the source, this change does not automatically re runs the test.
And if we just refresh it.
We won't be seeing it in effect because this configuration initially loaded and during runtime it never
checked.
So we need to stop and start the test console.
So here in my test terminal, I'm just killing this one.
And running it once again and PM test.
And if I open the test console here we are seeing the tests are running in the order we add to the test
module.
So the first test was it has signed up Heather and the last test was disables the button and before
that we have this it has sign up button.
So now this is running in this order.